## สถิติการสมรส
คนไทยก็มีแนวโน้มแต่งงานกับคนที่มีระดับการศึกษาใกล้เคียงกันไหม
คนไทยมีแนวโน้มโสดมากขึ้นไหม
อายุแต่งงานครั้งแรกเท่าไหร่ 
https://tradingeconomics.com/thailand/mean-age-at-first-marriage-male-wb-data.html
https://tradingeconomics.com/thailand/mean-age-at-first-marriage-female-wb-data.html

## สถิติน้ำหนักแรกเกิด
น้ำหนักแรกเกิดของเด็กต่ำหรือสูงเมื่อเทียบกับประเทศอื่น
https://tradingeconomics.com/thailand/low-birthweight-babies-percent-of-births-wb-data.html
ceasarian section rate
https://www.who.int/hrh/en/HRDJ_4_1_02.pdf?ua=1

Recently I have been reading this book called the Economics of Family Happiness (or 家族の幸せの経済学 in Japanese) by Shintaro Yamaguchi, one of the faculty members at my school. Despite its simple Japanese (Believe me it's one of the most comprehensible Japanese non-fictions I've ever read - and I consider level of my Japanese reading equal to that of a 12-year-old kid!), it is a very insightful read about people getting married, giving birth, taking care of their kids, and getting divorce.

The book illustrates its point by looking at (mostly Japanese) data and studies from several countries. And naturally, I wonder whether Thailand has the same trend as well. We all say there are more and more single people, fewer babies, and so on. Still, it remains unclear whether these claims are all proven by data. I did some digging through public Thai data sets and here are the results.

## Economics of Marriage
This chapter deals with how people meet and select their partners. One important trend in Japan is the share of never-married 50-year-olds and age of first marriage are on the rise. I couldn't find public data on never-married 50-year-olds but this graph shows the share of married individuals.

Surprisingly, age of first marriage is much lower in Thailand. Data from the world bank shows it's only 28 for male and 25 for female, compared to 29 and 28 in Japan.

This chapter also reviews a number of studies that use dating site data. It mentions data sets from US and Korea. If we can get this kind of data, we might have a fun research so I started googling for a few dating sites commonly used in Thailand. Besides Tinder, Bumble, Okcupid, there was another on that stood out to me - thaicupid.com. Apparently its main target customers are foreign guys who want to meet Thai girls. (This site is also affiliated with other international dating sites such as BrazilCupid, JapanCupid, etc.) It reminds me of these anecdotes on Twitter about Thai girls marrying western guys to escape poverty. There was this one girl who married a European guy and moved there to work. She posted her story on Facebook that she did marry for a better life of her and her son but still she has to work hard, that it's not all sunshine and rainbows. This [bbc article](https://www.bbc.com/thai/thailand-47101992) also tells a story about a Thai girl who married a German guy and ended up being abused and sold among his acquaintances.

Apparently there is a number of studies on this topic. 

Well, that was a digress.

### Economics of Infants

The next chapter is on child birth and infants. Its main focuses are on the effect of birthweight, C-section, and breastfeeding. 
- Infants with more birthweight are more successful in life, even after controlling for family background.
- It is unclear whether children born with C-section are more disadvantaged.
- "Breastfeeding is better than formula feeding" is also a myth.






I was so excited about this book that I talked to my parents about it over the phone. And from a viewpoint of an old-married couple, they are wondering whether there are studies about people like them - someone retired with kids living separately. I have never seen any studies on that (or maybe they are in literature about retirees.) Fingers-crossed for Economics of Family Happiness Vol.2!


